ah kiev you've been dreaming of getting
here for years
getting out your trusty camera you start
taking pictures of the cathedrals
aviation museum and the nepro river
when without warning there's an enormous
boom behind
you turning around you see something
towering in the distance
it looks like a gigantic explosion uh oh
time to leave fast in june 2020
what the people of kiev were looking at
was an anvil cloud
a rare storm formation in the sky
forming when strong air currents carry
water vapor upwards
the air expands and spreads out as it
hits the bottom of the stratosphere
it pushes the dense cloud into the cool
anvil
shape you see and sometimes it even gets
to be a mushroom
anvil clouds produce some of the most
dangerous lightning of all storms
one that's called a bold out of the blue
this lightning strike seems to magically
come out of the blue sky
with the storm being many miles away
this type of bolt comes from the top of
the anvil and can be 10 times more
powerful
than a typical lightning strike people
got so
frightened after witnessing a giant
cloud just 60 miles away
thinking something terrible must have
happened the locals had pictures of the
large billow on social media
before officials could explain what was
going on
authorities managed to calm everyone's
fears by informing them
it was nothing more than a natural
phenomenon and
a beautiful one at that before
dissipating
these clouds typically stay in one area
regardless of how strong the wind is
touring around the northern tip of
queensland australia
way away from those creepy crawlies it's
time to take a break and relax at the
beach
getting comfortable you notice a great
big shadow passes over you
then another and yet another
looking up this weird weather is simply
stunning
the clouds are called morning glory a
very rare type of cloud that almost
seems to roll across the sky
looking like a massive tube these clouds
can measure up to 600 miles long
even appearing in large groups as well
this phenomenon is the result of an
updraft pushing through the cloud
creating a rolling appearance while
moist cooler
air at the back causes them to sink
downward
southern india between july and
september 2001
people witnessed one of the strangest
weather phenomenon
in recorded history the rain was red
what many would have thought to be a
typical rainstorm left them shocked
the color was bright enough to stain
clothes there were other colors too
such as green yellow brown and even
black
in the middle of a monsoon red rain
started to fall
and did so periodically for several
weeks
researchers have found this unusual rain
is stained
either by dust or algae so don't try to
catch any on your tongue
scientists aren't entirely sure how the
algae got all the way up there
this does make events like this a little
unsettling
like to take a bubble bath to relax
after an exhausting day
but taking too long to fill the bathtub
problem solved
head to any coastline after a big storm
and take a dip
foamy tides aren't native to any one
place or location
they can be formed anywhere in the world
they're most likely to happen along
rocky coastlines like the coast of san
francisco
northern ireland or the mululaba
australia
each coast has differing conditions
forming the sea foams
if you scoop up seawater into a glass
and look at it closely
you'll see is full of tiny particles
many things like plants
chemicals and lots of salt and minerals
create the perfect
formula for foam when powerful currents
and wind
mix it all together we get something
that resembles a cappuccino top floating
on top of the water
when freezing temperatures hit orchards
in michigan
all kinds of unusual things happen like
ghost
apples no they're not going to scare you
at all
but if you plan on sneaking away one
winter to find one
be warned everything has to be perfect
for this to occur
and it's going to be freezing cold
this is actually a rare weather
phenomenon caused by having the apples
freeze where they are
with rain coating the fruit in a thin
layer of eyes
the apples then thaw and leak out like
applesauce
leaving just the beautiful ice shell
behind
the catatumbo river in venezuela might
be the most
electric place in the world with nearly
300 storm days per year
the lightning storms are so consistent
they're predicted for three months in
advance
during the wet season in october you
might see 30 lightning flashes in a
single minute
a truly shocking experience
with each bolt having the energy to
power a single light bulb for six months
the impressive display could power all
of venezuela forever
at sunset strong winds flow around the
three
surrounding mountains forming storm
clouds over the water
as the water droplets of humid air
collide with ice crystals from the cold
air
it produces the static charges that
cause the lightning storms nearly
every night if that wasn't bad enough
some storms have lightning above them as
well
try to take a picture of this one
jellyfish lightning sprites are
electrical discharges high in earth's
atmosphere
they're associated with powerful
thunderstorms but they have nothing to
do with rain
these sprites occur 30 to 50 miles up in
the sky
in the mesosphere artificial lights at
night make it a lot harder to see this
faint lightning
if you spot one it'll look tiny but can
be
well over 30 miles wide
the red sprites are a type of cold
plasma discharge above a thunder cloud
they're the balance of the lightning
charges between the storm clouds and the
ground below
don't try to find this type of donut at
your favorite bakery
it won't be there snow donuts are one of
the rarest meteorological sites to see
with perfect weather conditions needed
just to create them
found in any snow-covered mountain area
like the rocky mountains
the wind temperature snow ice and
moisture
have to all work together for us to see
these phenomenal rings
a thin layer of wet snow on the ground
under that layer
ice or powdered snow then a strong
enough breeze
to roll the donut down a hill just like
a snowball
once it stops rolling it can be the size
of a baseball
or as large as a car tire it all depends
on how strong the wind is
a newly formed snow donut won't stay
around for very long
so hurry up with that camera
watching the sunset over the horizon the
beautiful purples and pink overhead
are nothing compared to the three suns
you see in front of you
wow since when did earth get three suns
these phantom stars sometimes appearing
besides the sun
are called sun dogs maybe they're called
that because they're kind of
dogging the actual sun sun dogs often
appear as colored areas of light
at the same height above the horizon as
the sun
they're mostly observed on a ring or
halo where
ice crystals best reflect the light
there are also moon dogs that appear
alongside the moon
and are formed by lunar light passing
through ice crystals
though these aren't seen nearly as much
as their daytime partners
taking photos in the wild you finally
found the perfect spot to take that
dream
shot the crystal clear water the pines
the mountains
and the flying saucer wait a flying
saucer
oh aliens are here
you might be thinking this if you saw a
saucer-shaped cloud
i'm not even going to try to pronounce
their name though put that on the screen
please
wait just kidding it's autocumulus
lenticularis aren't you impressed these
are really just
unusual cloud formations over mountain
tops
when moist air flows over a mountain a
wave is created if the temperature
difference is perfect
as the air passes through the wave
evaporation occurs
and a series of these clouds may form
into an oval
shape not aliens at all
the sky is falling the sky is falling
well
people who have experienced these clouds
say they look like they're coming down
from the sky
mammatus clouds look like giant white
lumpy marshmallows
but it might be hard to toast these ones
these weird
fluffy clouds can extend hundreds of
miles in any direction
remaining visible for short periods at
the bottom of anvil or
other thunderstorm clouds the strange
bubble shapes are formed from
turbulence within the storm itself
creating
an uneven cloud base and appearing
anywhere in the world
mammoth clouds form when moist air sinks
into dry air
the air must be cooler than its
surroundings cooled with ice
or be heavy with water